# BattleShipGame

BATTLESHIP GAME DESCRIPTION



Battleship is a strategy type  guessing game for single players. It is played on ruled grids (10x10) on which each player's fleet of ships (including battleships) are marked. The locations of the fleets are concealed from the other player. Players alternate turns calling "shots" at the other player's ships, and the objective of the game is to destroy the opposing player's fleet. Fort his game player uses the “Turkish Navy Battleships”. 
The grids are typically square and the individual squares in the grid are identified by letter and number. On one grid the player arranges ships and records the shots by the opponent. On the other grid the player records their own shots. At the begining there is also a brief introduction part regarding the boards, ships and grids (squares).
Before play begins, each player secretly arranges their ships on their primary grid. For the computer it happens automatically. There are frigate, cruiser, submarine and patrolbaot. Each ship occupies a number of consecutive squares on the grid, arranged either  ships horizontally or vertically. For frigate sizes are 5, cruiser 4, submarine 3 and patrolboat 2 according to their size in real life. Player has two boards as player and computer. So he/she marks the conditions on these boards. Computer ‘s board is hidden so we mark the conditions on our second board. 
For positioning each ship’s the left/leftupper side must be entered one by one.  For the computer, this process happens automatically according to sizes and random numbers we generate. The computer ships cannot overlap (i.e., only one ship can occupy any given square in the grid) or can mark out of the board.  Player can overlap so he/she should pay attention to this, but cannot mark out of the board. The allowed types and numbers of ships are the same for each player. If the player wants to mark the ship or attack out of the grids, it can’t happen so the player should change it into the grids borders.
After the ships have been positioned, the game proceeds in a series of rounds/turns. Also the information is given before game starts. At the begenin all the grids have “Ocean” status. In each round, each player takes a turn to announce a target square in the opponent's grid which is to be shot at. The opponent announces whether or not the square is occupied by a ship. If it is a "hit", the player who is hit marks the board as “Shot”. The attacking player marks the hit or miss on their own board. If it is a miss also it is marked as “Miss” then. For the computer, each attack happens automatically.
When all of the squares of a ship have been hit, the ship's owner announces the sinking of the Frigate, Submarine, Cruiser and Patrol Boat, and mark them as “Sunk”.  Players have lives as much as the total size of the ships have, so it is 14 for this game. If all of the player's ships have been sunk, the game is over and their opponent wins. You can play again if you want or quit the game. 

Enjoy the game!

